this video was brought to you by our
very own impact theory university
for more information be sure to check
out the description below
[Music]
everybody welcome to another episode of
impact theory q
and a today we are going to be talking
all about
how to bounce back from failure this is
one of my favorite topics
on the planet because this is really how
you're going to separate yourself from
everybody else the people that can
leverage that failure
to learn from that to improve their
skill set and go on to be successful
are the ones that ultimately build the
life that they want to lead the ones
that are emotionally devastated by
failure are the ones that end up in a
death loop
and they never go anywhere so without
further ado let us dive
into your questions number one i feel
like i've always been able to bounce
back pretty easily from setbacks and
even pretty big failures then in
september within a short span i lost
almost everything the woman i planned on
marrying left me for what seemed to be
no reason at all the company i had
worked for
all year for 11 plus hours a day doing
sales found a loophole in my contract
and didn't pay me for the work i had
done all year
leaving me broke and nearly homeless
several close friends
showed their true colors and betrayed me
and i had sacrificed my faith in the
pursuit of these goals
i sat there after the hardest year of my
life completely
empty-handed feeling broken i had never
been
depressed before but i felt it very
keenly then
i held on to the thought that i would
get through it i always do
as i look back months later the
depression is basically gone but i feel
a profound sense of negativity i
have a feeling of deep set failure that
i'm trying to overcome
almost like the childlike enthusiasm was
lost and now i'm a grumpy old man at the
age of 23.
people talk about overcoming failure in
the short term could you please talk
about overcoming it in the long term
and going from failure to failure
without a loss of enthusiasm
okay this is amazing
so i want to talk about jaco willing's
idea of no matter what life throws at
you
the reaction is good i lost my job good
my woman left me for no reason good
people took money from me
good all of it good once you
flip that switch in your mind like even
now that gave me the chills
just thinking how powerful the reaction
to the world's most negative news to say
good yeah good now you have to come up
with a reason why it's good
and the reason that it's good is because
you know
that the only way to think about failure
quote unquote failure
is like ai artificial intelligence okay
an ai
it's not called failure it's called a
sample
okay you try something so if you've ever
seen the video of ai learning to play
the video game breakthrough the old
atari game
it is hilarious you see this paddle
squiggling around like crazy
the obviously the ai has no idea what
it's supposed to do so
all it's programmed to do is get a high
score but it doesn't know what gives it
a score
it doesn't know am i supposed to move
the paddle am i supposed to hit the ball
is the ball supposed to
you know break through the blocks at the
top and so it just like does
these random ass movements and then
finally it'll hit the ball and then
finally the ball breaks a brick and then
finally it finds the most
efficient path to break all of it now
let me tell you
in my 20s i don't know about you but in
my 20s i was a mess
in my early 20s i was so lost
frustrated afraid
insecure overwhelmed
paralyzed i mean it was it was a dark
period in my life
that's the nature of your 20s now in
my 20s as old as this is going to make
me sound
in my 20s the internet barely existed so
we certainly didn't have youtube there
wasn't people
putting out content that would allow me
to recontextualize my world
the fact that you already know the quote
that success is going from failure to
failure to failure without a loss of
enthusiasm you were so much farther
ahead
than where i was now i'm gonna use
an analogy of love if i may
one of the things i find most
interesting about love is that
in love you are opening yourself up
to being far more easily hurt
when you are in love it's a very
vulnerable state you have opened
yourself to somebody you've given
yourself over
in a way to that person and now you are
far more easily
hurt they know your insecurities they
could weaponize them against you
and when heartbreak comes along
it's very tempting to turtle up and to
protect yourself but then you're closed
off from the things that make
love valuable in the first place the
very thing
that makes love worthwhile is being able
to be
open like that to somebody to be
vulnerable to somebody
and the thing that makes love so
extraordinary
is that even when you get hurt
the people that can open themselves up
again and approach somebody
without the baggage of previous
relationships are the ones that end up
finding
that beautiful relationship that ends up
being worth the vulnerability and worth
the sacrifice
and speaking from experience ends up
being
the single greatest thing in your life
now if you learned nothing from the
heartbreak i understand why it's scary
to go into the next thing but the idea
here
the very way that we bounce back from
failure is by
looking exclusively at what we can do
differently
and when you look exclusively i'm not
saying other people didn't do something
that maybe it's maybe any rational
person would say it's all their fault
maybe the list of things you gave us is
literally you were just the world's
unluckiest human being
but the reason that we're going to say
good the reason
that we're going to look at this like ai
and samples the reason we're going to
remind ourselves
that success is going from failure to
failure to failure without a loss of
enthusiasm
the reason that we're going to think of
that love analogy and be willing to open
ourselves back
up is because we're going to figure out
what we could have done differently
we're going to see what can i improve in
my skill set
what did this catastrophe reveal
about my strategy and whenever a
strategy
yields a result different than the
desired result
then you know the strategy is
by definition wrong and i want you to
own that doesn't mean you're a bad
person okay
but it does mean that your strategy
wasn't working go back to ai
right it's wiggling around it finally
realizes oh i need to hit the ball
okay cool so now i'm going to track the
movement of the ball and i'm going to
adjust my paddle to be there okay cool i
got it
oh i actually see that hitting it on the
sides is far more advantageous than
hitting it in the middle
because once i clear a path on the side
then the ball can bounce
around on the top and destroy bricks far
faster than any other strategy
okay amazing but you had to first
have the reaction that that failure was
good
good because it revealed the flaw
in my strategy and because i'm playing
the long-term game
i'm going to open myself back up again
i'm going to allow myself to be
vulnerable again i'm going to
let the wound hurt as much as it needs
to for me to learn the lesson
no more not going to beat myself up over
it i'm not going to end up in a death
spiral of shame
but i am going to recognize
that i could do something different the
next time and get a different result
that to run the same strategy and expect
the result to change
is as einstein said the definition of
insanity
so that's what you have to do here you
have to recognize
that this thing that you consider the
worst thing that ever happened to you
with the change of framing is actually
the best thing that ever happened to you
and if you change the question that you
ask
about this and say how did this help me
what did i learn from this or what could
i learn from this
and how can this improve my strategy
moving forward
then all of a sudden the frame of
reference changes the emotion the way
you feel about it the dark energy that's
around it
begins to change because you're stoked
right this is good
all right i'm going to learn something
from this and it's going to be xyz and
maybe you only get incrementally better
and you try again
and maybe you fail again and you get
incrementally better and all of a sudden
if your life is anything like mine your
20s were getting kicked in the face
over and over and over but getting a
little bit better at blocking a little
bit better at avoiding
and then finally in your 30s you begin
to find your footing and then
you turn into beast mode late 30s early
40s
and now you feel like you can really
move the world it's exactly what it
feels like when you
understand how your own mind works how
the minds of others work and just sort
of the nature of the world
it's really incredible but the only way
to get there is to flounder around
to make horrendous mistakes and say
goodbye
all right next question
every time i face a challenge and feel
like it is no longer possible to
overcome it so like i already failed
i completely break down i cry about it
and then i'm stuck with a feeling of
disappointment in myself for at least a
week
afterwards i slowly but surely regain my
resilience
how can i shift the limiting belief that
failure is bad and therefore avoid such
an intense reaction
and how can i stop putting so much
pressure on myself to do everything
perfectly
okay so what's wonderful here is we're
now dealing with the physics of the
human mind
and my obsession is to get people to
understand that
you are having a biological experience
now why do i want you to understand
that you're having a biological
experience because i want you to
understand that the brain
reacts a certain way and you can
actually insert yourself
into that and change your
approach framing the way that you react
and in changing those things you will
change
not only the way you feel but the
outcomes that you're
able to get and so i want to introduce
you to victor frankl and cognitive
behavioral therapy
so viktor frankl said between stimulus
and response is a gap and
how we choose to react in that gap will
determine the rest of our lives now if
you don't know viktor frankl you wrote a
book called man's
search for meaning he wrote that book
after getting released from auschwitz
okay this is a guy that survived
multiple concentration camps
and he was a neuroscientist
and his ability to explain
what is happening inside the mind of a
human during something
that catastrophic is breathtaking
and when you realize that a guy that
went through something that just seems
unimaginable for a human being to
endure says the way that you endure it
is to one find meaning in your suffering
so why am i going through all of this
what do i expect to see on the other
side of in your case
shortening the window okay this was a
big thing in my life
learning to emotionally soothe whoever
emotionally soothes themself the fastest
is going to win
because you don't waste the week
spiraling out of control right
so if for me it takes three seconds to
emotionally soothe and it takes you a
week
you can imagine how much more progress
i'm gonna make in a year than you're
going to make
okay so viktor frankl says we've got
that gap
for you that gap may be very very small
and now what we're trying to do is widen
that gap now how are we going to widen
that gap we're going to widen that gap
with cognitive behavioral therapy
cognitive behavioral therapy is beyond
the scope of this
video to go into all the sort of details
about it
but i will say one of the most important
things that's talked about in cbt
is pattern interrupting so
you know that these patterns aren't
serving you you know
that spending a week derailed not
feeling resilient is a waste of your
time
so now when you feel that
lack of resilience the emotional
distress
you're going to interrupt that pattern
now i'll give you an example in my own
life
so for me i don't allow myself to feel
overwhelmed
and as dumb as that sounds it works
extraordinarily well
so as i can feel that you know that
sense of like
like agitation like you can feel your
brain like speeding up and you can sort
of feel yourself like escalating and
moving towards panic
in that moment i say first of all i
bring my chin down and
i furrow my eyebrows and i say i don't
do
overwhelm and by saying that phrase it
interrupts the pattern
and the reason i know that works goes
back to this idea of you're having a
biological experience
and i know that there is nothing either
good or bad
it is thinking that makes it so right
shout out to mr shakespeare
there's nothing either good or bad but
thinking makes it so it isn't what's
happening to you it's what you
think about what's happening to you so
i'm not overwhelmed [__] because
i don't do
overwhelm and now all of a sudden by
reminding myself i don't do overwhelm
now i may take things off my plate i may
decide no matter what's going on right
now i'm going to sit and meditate
i may remind myself that breathing from
my diaphragm
will physiologically whether i want it
to or not
if i do it long enough it will move me
out of the sympathetic nervous system
fight or flight into the parasympathetic
nervous system
rest and digest that is physiological
and so i'm going to do those things now
that doesn't mean that i'm wired
differently than anybody or that i'm
doing anything you know particularly
special
but it interrupts the pattern of
escalation that i've gotten into because
i'm thinking
that this is bad i'm thinking oh my god
i've got all these things going on i'm
never going to be able to handle them
there's so much pressure what the [__]
am i going to do
and in that moment what i do is remind
myself i don't do
overwhelm so for you it may be reminding
yourself i don't spiral out of control
for a week i don't allow that in myself
what i do is i meditate what i do is i
remember failure as part of the process
what i do is remind myself that like
artificial intelligence
i need these samples i need these
moments of failure this is exactly
why i need an anti-fragile personality
my very identity is tied up in learning
okay that's a huge
thing when you tie your ego to being the
learner now all of a sudden the pattern
interrupt becomes i'm the learner
i don't mind that i failed nothing to
spiral out of control about
i'm going to learn from this and i'm
going to keep going in fact i want to
know what can i learn from this
what's the lesson here and when you
change your framing and you look at that
and you take advantage
of viktor frankl's gap and you fill that
gap with
i'm the learner i'm going to get better
from this what can i learn
everything else is going to take care of
itself
all right question three
hi tom i took the plunge and dove
straight into entrepreneurship after
completing my junior college at the age
of 18 without any job experience
i'm 25 this year and none of my ventures
have taken off or succeeded
i've started looking for a job this year
and was rejected even for entry level
positions as a founder
i did not acquire many hard skills how
to use specific software program etc
as i had to work on the higher level
strategy and management while running my
own startups
i'm stuck and unsure of how i can
translate my failed startup experience
while i seek out new employment
opportunities i'm terrified that i've
wasted seven years bumping into walls
with no results to show and it's too
late to start from scratch
okay so first of all there are many
things that we're going to want to do
here
much of it is going to be reframing so i
don't know maybe you really didn't
develop skills and maybe you were
floundering for seven years and maybe
you really did waste that time
probably not true but the most
terrifying way for you to approach
this question is as if that is true that
you really did
quote unquote waste those years because
that's never how i would think about it
but we certainly found things that
didn't work right so thomas edison talks
about
i didn't fail 10 000 times which
supposedly is how many filaments
he tried when trying to invent the light
bulb he said i didn't fail 10 000 times
i simply found 10 000 ways that didn't
work
and every attempt discarded is another
step forward
okay so you just spent seven years
putting things to the side that you know
aren't going to work a bunch of attempts
discarded cool
you're now seven years ahead of
everybody else now you may be
approaching the job market
in the wrong way you may be applying for
jobs that require hard skills
but i'm telling you look if an
entry-level position depending on
what you're trying to go into if it's an
entry-level position like i'm trying to
be an entry-level doctor with my
you know seven years of startup
experience that's never going to work or
i'm trying to be an entry level coder
that's never going to work right there
are certain things that have really hard
skills and you're going to need those
hard skills go
learn them right so learning this stuff
takes time and energy but that's all it
takes
time and energy okay it's what i call
the only belief that matters
if you put time and energy into learning
a skill into getting better you will
actually get better at that skill okay
i'm not saying it's not hard but who the
[__] cares like
it drives me crazy that people focus on
it's hard yes it's hard getting good at
[__] is hard
outperforming other people is hard but
if you want to win you've got to do hard
[__]
so you're gonna have to lean into this
you're gonna have to get good so
anyway the fact that people get weird
that learn to code has become like some
sort of weird
thing i don't understand if you want a
job at something that requires a set of
skills go get that set of skills that's
just that [__] simple
so your seven years
may have been a total waste of time in
the
acquisition of skills towards the job
that you want
now but unless you just spent the last
seven years staring
at a wall you have a treasure trove
of learnings that you'll be able to pull
from
so now this is a question about how
you're approaching the job market not a
question
about whether you wasted those seven
years
so we have to frame this in such a way
that we understand
what the value of those seven years was
how we can
articulate that value to somebody as we
begin approaching the job market
and getting good at pitching yourself is
a skill and it's not necessarily going
to come easy
but i have a gut instinct that the real
problem that you have
is just how to interview for a job how
to explain to people what it is that
you're good at
because the hard knock life of an
entrepreneur
is man the amount that you're learning
is so crazy leadership working with
people
how to create momentum starting from
scratch and getting your first customer
i mean it's really an extraordinary
skill set
so find the right thing to approach from
a job perspective
practice articulating what that is
walk into the interview armed to the
teeth
with how you can help their company do
way more work
than anybody else applying for that job
and you will get a job this is where
you can learn on your entrepreneurial
skills harder
than you've ever done in your life to
show people the kind of value that you
can bring
so the last thing i'm going to give you
on that is this idea of starting from
scratch
i want you to use the brain in a vat
thought exercise i do this to myself all
the time every time i can feel i'm about
to get stuck in this loop of like
um you know how have i learned the right
things
am i pointed in the right direction did
we just spend a year pursuing something
that was stupid
i'm never going to get that year back
i remind myself it's entirely possible
in fact i
actually am a brain in a vat it just so
happens that the vat is my skull
and my brain is creating an artificial
reality
i'm not saying we live in a vr world but
i am saying your brain never
light never touches your brain sound
never touches your brain and yet
you have this sense of sound and sight
and touch and feel and all that stuff as
if it were
outside of you when a reality is being
created in this virtual environment your
brain
so what if i were just a brain in a vat
somewhere and all of my memories are
fake
and that i actually just came online
seven seconds ago
that thought experiment is so powerful
to me because it reminds me
oh my memories can work for me or
against me they're just the background
that i need to give me the context to
move forward
so if this is really just about context
right which is all memories are
it's just context then while i can't
change
the memories i can change how i think
about the memories
and so i'm going to recontextualize
those seven years as being my
10 000 hours of getting good at
something and now it's like cool they
weren't failures they were lessons
and now what i do with those lessons is
up to me
this video was brought to you by our
very own impact theory university
for more information be sure to check
out the description below
alright number four i'm a television
presenter and got two
offers to host those shows both
producers were impressed and gave me
offers on the same day both unknowing
that i applied elsewhere
i picked one and respectfully turned the
other down where i turned them down they
moved on with a new presenter i was told
to come sign a contract with the
production team
the following day upon arrival they
postponed until they went silent on me
i have been extremely demoralized by
this i am now struggling to find work
it's depressing and frustrating all at
the same time
how do i move on okay this is like one
of the key insights of
my life
you should only ever do
and believe that which moves you towards
your goal
so will feeling badly
about making what may have been a
legitimate mistake maybe you handled
that poorly maybe you should have taken
the other job
or maybe you should have waited to tell
the other people no
until you'd actually signed on the
dotted line right super powerful lessons
you're probably going to handle this
differently in the future
but will beating yourself up over it
holding on to it
kicking yourself thinking what a dumb
you are is that going to move you
towards your goal if it does then do it
but my gut instinct is it will only
serve you as much as it will give you
the impetus that you need
to ask yourself what should i do
differently the next time
that is powerful spiraling out of
control because you made a mistake
is not powerful in fact you need to be
decisive in life you made a [__]
decision it didn't work out
such is life it just goes like it goes
so now we need to find a way
i am constantly asking myself how can i
get control in my hands so that i'm not
waiting on somebody else right
you could go right now start a youtube
channel you don't have to wait for
legacy media to give you the thumbs up
you have a phone get on your phone
record yourself if you can add value to
people
then you can build an ecosystem so two
things we're going to reframe right
it's a key part of bouncing back from
failure we're going to reframe that
failure
there's powerful lessons to be learned
looking forward we're only going to do
and believe about ourselves that which
moves us towards our goal
so we're not going to sit there and
think what an idiot we are because it's
only going to slow us down
negative energy psychologically it's not
putting you in the best place
okay and then we're going to realize hey
we can keep applying
cool go do it yeah yeah like become the
best interviewer ever
get more jobs keep going it's a numbers
game and we always have the other option
which is to build a following for
ourselves
but we retain that control we're always
looking for what we could do
differently we're not putting the power
in somebody else's hands
word next
i always thought the moment i would fail
i would trust the process i am in
and just keep going until i win but the
moment i failed everything crashed for
me
i failed an important exam that would
get me into medical school and now i'm
doubting my chances of ever getting in
it's so easy to have faith in yourself
when you haven't felt how it's like to
fail
and failing hard on the ground my
question is
is the pain that comes with failing
worth it if your chances of getting the
victory only a few percentage oh my god
pate pate where do you find these this
is so good
okay so here is a concept
this is a really hard reality to face
when we are young
we can become anything but as we age
we become something specific and there's
a
death in that there's something that
really
bothers me about that that legitimately
i have the chills right now
it that [__] haunts me
and so i understand what you're saying i
get
go through the darkness with me here for
a minute i'm going to pull you back out
on the other side i promise
that does suck and
i have a friend who
failed to get into the college of his
choice which would have moved him to a
different city
and the thing that kept him from going i
mean it's a whole story it's too
heartbreaking for words
stupid and
he ended up not moving and because he
didn't move the course of his life
in my opinion changed forever and i
remember thinking
why didn't he if that's what he really
wanted
why didn't he try what alex banayan
calls the third door
you didn't get in the first door fair
enough right to just sort of knock knock
knock
anybody there you didn't get in the
window right or the second door
but there's always the third option of
going so ham
whatever it takes by hook or crook to
get in
like when you read alex's book
and the things that he did to
get an interview with larry king the
warren buffett one is a great example
he wanted to ask a question at the
warren buffett every year
holds the um the conference where
shareholders get to come and they get
asked questions
he works so hard to figure out because
there's they do it in an arena
there are different microphones all over
the arena and he
figured out that certain places get
called on
more frequently than others he got like
five or six
friends that all had or maybe even
bought shares so that they could go do
this
and each of them had the same question
each of them went to the like five or
six most likely microphones to get
picked
and he went and one of them ended up
getting to ask the question
and that's the third door like doing
things
that nobody would believe that somebody
would do
to think that hard about the problem to
understand it that deeply
and this is the thing about magic so
i've studied magic at the magic castle
i'm obsessed with magic now why am i
obsessed with magic
for one reason what makes
magic work
is far more impressive than it being
true like
harry potter style magic it is that
somebody has worked so hard on something
thought so far in advance on something
gone so far out of their way to plant
something
that when they pull it off it's easier
to believe that it's magic
than it is to believe that they went
through all of that rigmarole
so for instance i have seen
um i think it was david blaine
have somebody pick a card and then
there's a it was basketball players
famous nba players
and over off on the side there's
basketballs
and he has them pick a card any card
they want and they pick the card
and then you know he does the things i'm
going to find your card and all that and
he's like you know is this your card no
it's not
and then of course that's a plant and in
the end he says oh actually i know where
your card is
go grab one of those basketballs he
doesn't even tell them which basketball
to grab
just go grab one of those basketballs
they grab a basketball
this [__] stabs the basketball
with a knife pops it right
there and pulls out a card now
it just seems impossible to think that
he went to a basketball manufacturer
and had them make basketballs with a
card
in it that he could get you to choose
it's called a force in magic where you
lead somebody to pick a given card
you force them to pick the card you want
them to pick
you put that and he may have picked two
or three different cards
and maybe he had them in different
places in the gym
and depending on which card they picked
he'd send them to
whichever grouping of basketballs he
wanted them to pick
and he knows okay you know that's the
ace of spades that's the king of hearts
like queen of hearts
things that are like most likely for
people to pick and then when you cut it
you just
you can't imagine your brain doesn't
even go to that place
but that's what you have to do when
you've had a tremendous failure
to recognize that
you've got to get so hardcore
that people would sooner believe that
it's magic than that you just work that
hard
but that if you do that you really can
achieve whatever you want in life
so this thing has kicked you in the
teeth it's made you believe that maybe
the thing that you wanted just isn't
possible and
because of that when you failed it feels
like your whole world view has crumbled
but in reality
are many things that you could point
yourself at that you could
learn to love as much or more than that
other thing and i say
learn to love on purpose everything is a
process
love passion skills all of it is a
but also there's still that opportunity
to get into the third door
so you didn't get in the obvious way but
there is a way
and if you believe that medical school
is the right answer for you now we need
to find out what's that path
so i did this with film school i didn't
get into film school the first time that
i tried
and all the teachers or sorry the
counselors
when you go see them usc film school you
are more likely to get into harvard law
statistically it's not about
intelligence just the number of people
that apply versus what gets accepted
you're statistically more likely to get
into harvard law than you are to get
into usc film school
and so every counselor was like hey
you're not going to get in and this is
one of the they didn't say
words like that they said the exact word
you are not going to get in
stop taking classes like you're going to
get in just the odds are
so stacked against you there's no way
and i just thought
i'm going to get in because everything
in my life is pointed at that
and so i found out who was on the
admissions committee and i found out
that he offered you could join him for
lunch because he was also a teacher you
could join him for lunch if you were a
student in his class
so i took his class and i went to his
lunch and i was the only person there
which i still to this day cannot believe
that more people didn't take them up on
it
and i joined them for lunch and i said
look i have one question i didn't my sat
scores were really low
i got a 990. they wanted a 1300 scores
are all different now but you get the
gap was [__] huge
and i said what do i need to do with sat
scores this low
and he said oh sat scores just tell us
how well you're supposed to do in
college
you've already missed the window to get
in as a freshman you have another
opportunity as a incoming junior
just get really good grades if your
grades are higher enough then you can
get into film school
when i say that i nothing else in my
life existed
for two years i didn't drink i didn't go
to parties
i didn't even date i didn't do anything
but study
because i knew that i needed to get good
grades
and i ended up getting like a 395 or
some crazy [__] and so when i reapplied
i got in just like he said i would okay
that's the third door
finding out who's the gatekeeper what do
they actually want
there are other ways to get into medical
medical school let me tell you
now it's just a question do you want it
bad enough to work so hard
that when you pull it off people would
rather believe it was magic than just
really hard work
because if you do and you do those
things then my friend you will get in
failure is only permanent if that's what
you choose to believe
reframe it recognize you have power
recognize you have
control over what you do and recognize
that if you leave people in awe and that
my friends is your job
the only way to really have mind-blowing
success in life is to set the bar
ridiculously high
and then surpass all expectations
and that's when it looks like magic and
that's when you'll get what you want
that simple don't buy into failure it's
just
a lesson all right
my question to you is how do i bounce
back when i find out that my mom doesn't
believe in me oh my god i can already
tell you how to answer this one
i'm emotional when it concerns my mom i
can deal with relatives or friends but
i'm struggling because it's my family
who i love very
much and she is the center of my
universe it's a knockout punch
and i know and i don't know how to deal
with this and this has created a very
toxic environment in my home p.s
i lost my father almost a couple years
ago and it's just been me and my mom
ever since
also moving out isn't an option because
she is completely dependent on me please
help oh my god
my life was tailor-made to answer your
question
okay so first of all when i left for
college my mother
quietly assumed i was going to fail now
she admittedly did not say
you're going to fail but she assumed i
was going to fail my father-in-law
once i'd already graduated but i wanted
his blessing to marry his daughter he
said
no because he didn't believe that i was
going to become anything
now somebody telling you that they don't
want you to marry their daughter because
they don't know that you're going to be
able to take care of them
that is a pretty direct way of saying
hey kid i don't believe in you
i've often said the greatest gift
anyone can ever give you is doubt
it isn't belief your mom is working for
you
your mom is giving you the best thing
that she can give you
here's the thing the reason you i have
the chills
the reason that you need her to believe
in you is because you don't believe in
yourself
the reason you don't believe in yourself
is because you actually
aren't good enough yet
now your obsession
your mission should you choose to accept
it
is to become good enough to get so good
that nobody can stop you
you can't be denied that booze can't
block your dunks
let that be the driving
force when in your darkest moments
you have that reminder that there are
people who don't believe that you can
pull this
off eighty percent of your time should
be spent in the light the beautiful
things you want to do
your self belief focusing on your
improving over time
spend the vast majority of your time
there
but there are going to be times dark
moments are coming for you
and ironically when you feel broken when
you feel like you couldn't possibly go
another step
it's proving them wrong
not letting them be right which is dark
energy man it's the dark side
right but the dark side is powerful
that's why it's so seductive
we're not going to spend a lot of time
there but we're going to recognize its
power
and you can love your mom and still want
to show her and maybe
one way you can think about it if you
want to put this into the beautiful side
that
that's your mom who doesn't believe in
herself which is why she can't believe
in you
she can't see it for herself so she
can't see it for you
and so showing her just how much is
possible by
just day after day focusing on getting
better it's okay to not be good enough
yet
you're the average human right don't
believe that you're special i don't
believe i'm special i think i'm
hopelessly average
now when people look at me as an after
picture they think i'm being falsely
humble
but they didn't see me in my 20s i was a
mess
the reason my mom quietly assumed i was
going to fail is because i was on a
trajectory
to fail the reason my best friend
assumed i was going to marshmallow my
way through life that's a quote
is because i was marshmallowing my way
through life the reason my father-in-law
didn't think i was going to succeed is
because i didn't have the drive to see
my ambition through these people had not
misidentified me i just wasn't good
enough yet
and so i took that on and said cool
i love my father-in-law he's an amazing
human being he was always very kind to
me he was very transparent that he
didn't think i was on the right path
my mom my friends
my father-in-law they were right
but i could change i could get better
and so i just became obsessed with
getting better
so we don't need to convince mom we
don't need mom to cheer us on
we know it is a fact of the human
existence
that if you put time and energy into
getting better you will get better
now it is true you cannot make a
racehorse
out of a pig but you can make a really
fast pig
so maybe this thing that you're pursuing
you're never going to be the greatest in
the world at
but even tenfolding
your life would make your life
unrecognizable
and i will say that somebody who shows
up every day for years and years and
years and years and years
sincerely pursuing improvement
won't 10x our life you'll 100 x your
life
by improving your skills it's that
simple you're just going to be improving
your skills and suddenly you turn that
lack of belief you turn that failure
into being a guiding light for other
people right when i
said i wanted to become an entrepreneur
my family thought it was crazy they
thought i was risking everything what
was i doing
and there were times i wondered about
that had i just made my life
my wife's life miserable right
that her father was right and i really
was going to make my
wife's life hard and i did quite frankly
for years
being married to me in the beginning
meant poverty it meant clipping coupons
it meant
having to track a 2.99
rental of a movie back when that was a
thing and
in my dark moments i worried that they
were right
but in my dark moments i just focused on
i'm not going to let them be right
and i only need one belief and that is
that if i put
consistent time and energy into
improving my skill set if i'm honest
with myself about where i am
what i need to do to improve i actually
will improve
and so i started saying the following
phrase to myself
don't judge yourself through the lens of
a moment
judge yourself through the lens of a
lifetime
and maybe a more practical way to think
about it is look at your life in three
to ten year tranches in any one day you
still feel
like a loser right but when you look
back over three years and you think hmm
i'm a lot better than i was three years
ago when you think about who you were 10
years ago
like if your one of the earlier
questions was asked by somebody who's 23
10 years ago they were 13. were they
capable
at 13 of what they are now not by a long
shot i mean
the the radical nature of the change
would be staggering
from 13 to 23. when i think about who i
was
at 34 right i'm 44 now if i think about
who i was at 34
oh my god like the amount that i'm
able to do now that i couldn't do then
is truly
staggering and even looking back three
years ago
it's staggering so
recognizing that
you don't need people to believe in you
you need only believe
in a simple fact about the human brain
time and energy put into getting better
will yield improved
skill set skills have utility they allow
you to do things in the world
whether your mom believes in you or not
whether anybody believes in you or not
if you get good enough you will win
it's that simple
all right i think that's a good note to
end on everybody trust me
the things you want in life are all
possible it is just
a question of skills and nothing and i
mean nothing
will help you accrue skills faster than
failure
but you have to reframe it you have to
see that it's empowering you have to see
that it's useful you have to see that it
is the most
information rich data stream that exists
if you're willing
to see yourself as the learner
look at the lesson adjust your behavior
accordingly
and pour your heart and soul into
getting better every single day
if you do that failure will propel you
forward faster than anything else
all right thank you guys for joining me
and until next time my friends
be legendary take care
hey everybody thank you so much for
watching if you haven't already be sure
to smash that subscribe button and hit
the bell notification so you never
miss a thing until next time my friends
be legendary take care